Wall of Force appears in front of caster instead.
Stinking Cloud appears centered on the caster instead.
Caster shoots forth eight non-poisonous snakes from fingertips instead. Snakes do not attack and are not helpful in any way.
Casters clothes become itchy but they gain a +2 to initiative.
Caster glows as per a Light spell.
Spell Effect has a 60' radius centered on the caster.
Next phrase spoken by caster becomes true, lasting for 10 rounds.
Casters hair grows one foot in length instead.
Caster moves 5' per 1/2 Base Caster Bonus in a random direction instead.
Casters face is blackened by a small explosion. Take 1d4 per spell level of the triggering spell in nonlethal damage instead.
Caster develops allergy to his magical items instead. Character cannot control sneezing until all magical items are removed. Allergy lasts 1d6 turns.
Caster's head becomes invisible for 1d3 turns
Caster shrinks 1 size category for 10 min per Base Caster Bonus instead.
Caster falls madly in love with target for 1d4 days or until a Remove Curse is cast.
Spell cannot be canceled at will by caster.
Caster Polymorphs into a random form instead.
All caster's speech is replaced by bubbles that spell out the caster's thoughts above their head. They cannot cast spells with verbal components. Lasts 1 round per Base Caster Bonus.
Reversed Tongues affects all creatures within 60 feet of the caster instead.
Wall of Fire encircles caster.
Caster's legs elongate, granting them +15 feet of movement. However they also have a 25% chance to fall prone when running.
Caster suffers same spell effect as target.
Caster levitates 20 feet in the air for 1d4 turns
Cause Fear with 60' radius centered on caster. Caster immune.
Caster speaks in a squeaky voice for 1d6 days.
Caster gains X-ray vision for 1d6 rounds.
Caster ages 1d6 years.
Silence, 15' radius centers on caster.
10' X 10' pit appears immediately in front of the caster, 5' deep per base caster bonus instead.
Reverse gravity beneath caster's feet for 1 round.
Colored streamers pour from caster's fingertips instead.
Spell effect rebounds on caster.
Caster becomes invisible as per the Invisibility spell.
Color Spray from caster's fingertips.
Stream of butterflies pours from caster's mouth instead.
Caster leaves a random monster's (shaped) footprints instead of their own until a Dispel Magic is cast.
3d6 gems shoot from the caster's fingertips instead. Each gem is worth 1d6x10gp.
Music fills the air. Any bard music in effect continues for 1 round/level.
Create Food and Water happens instead.
All non magical fires within 60' of caster are extinguished
One magical item within 30' of the caster (randomly chosen) has all magical abilities suppressed for 1day per Base Caster Bonus.
One normal item within 30' of caster (randomly chosen) becomes magical for 1 day per Base Caster Bonus. Effect is random.
All magical items within 20' of the caster gain an additional +1 Enhancement Bonus for 10 rounds.
Smoke trickles from the ears of all creatures within 60' of caster for 1 turn.
Dancing Lights appear instead.
All creatures within 30' of caster begin to hiccup (50% spell fail on verbal spells, -2 to attack rolls)
Knock With a 60' radius.
Caster and target exchange places.
Spell affects random  target within 60' of the caster.
Spell fails but no mana is lost
Summon Monster II occurs and the creatures have a 50% chance to be hostile.
Sudden change in weather (temperature rise, snow, rain, etc.) lasting 1 round/level.
Deafening bang affects everyone within 60'. All those who can hear must for save DC 10 + Base Caster Bonus or be Deafened for 1d6 rounds.
Caster and target exchange bodies as if Alter Self for 24 hours, they do not physically swap places however.
Gate opens to randomly chosen outer plane: 50% chance for an extra-planar creature to appear. Flip a coin and see what happens!
Spell functions but the caster shrieks like a shrieker for 1d4 rounds, causing all creatures within 30 feet who can hear the noise to attempt a DC 10 +1/2 Base Caster Bonus Fortitude save or take 1d4 sonic damage each round. Save negates.
Spell Effectiveness (duration, area of effect, damage, etc.) decreases 50%.
Spell reversed, if reverse is possible
Spell becomes a living spell for the normal duration of the spell.
All weapons within 60' of caster glow for 1 round per Base Caster Bonus
Spell functions, spell resistance does not apply, and target has a -5 to all saving throws versus this spell.
Spell appears to fail when cast, but occurs 1d4 rounds later.
All magical items within 60' of the caster clow for 1 day per Base Caster Bonus.
Caster and target switch personalities for 2d10 rounds.
The Slow spell comes into effect centered on the target instead.
Target is affected by Delusional Pride instead.
Lightning Bolt shoots toward the target instead.
Target is affected by Enlarge Person instead.
The Darkness spell comes into effect centered on the target instead
The Plant Growth spell comes into effect centered on the target instead
1,000 lbs of non-living matter within 10' of the target is vanishes (is "relocated").
The Fireball spell comes into effect centered on the target instead.
Target is affected by Flesh to Stone instead.
Spell is cast; material, components, mana are not expended.
Everyone within 10' of the caster receives the benefits of the Heal spell.
Target becomes dizzy. -4 to all d20 rolls for 1 round per Base Caster Bonus instead. 
Wall of Fire encircles the target instead.
Target levitates 20' for 1d3 turns instead.
Target suffers Blindness instead.
Target is affected by Charm Monster instead.
Target forgets the last 24 hours.
Target's legs elongate, granting them +15 feet of movement. However, they also have a 25% chance to fall prone when running.
A Rust Monster appears in front of the target instead.
The target Polymorphs into a random form instead.
Target falls madly in love with the caster for 1d4 days or until a Remove Curse is cast instead.
Target changes gender.
A small black raincloud forms over the target instead.
Stinking Cloud appears centered on the target instead.
A random heavy object (boulder, anvil, etc.) appears over the target and falls dealing 2d20 points of damage instead.
Target begins sneezing uncontrollably, no spells can be cast until fit passes. Lasts 1d6 rounds.
Spell effect has a 60' radius centered on the target, and all within that radius suffer the effect.
Target's clothes also become itchy, and they gain a +2 to initiative.
Target's  race changes to a different one randomly. This effect lasts until canceled by Dispel Magic
Target turns ethereal for 2d4 rounds.
Target is affected by Haste instead.
All non magical cloth on target crumbles into dust.
Target sprouts leaves, this causes no damage and can be "pruned" without harm.
Target sprouts new and useless appendages (wings, arm, ear, etc.). This effect lasts until canceled by Dispel Magic.
Target's skin changes to a random color for 1d4 days or until a Remove Curse is cast instead.
Spell's duration is extended to triple its normal amount of time.
Spell is considered Empowered and Maximized at no additional cost.